6. Discuss your experiences with the JIRA software. Do you find it easy to use? Find a competing agile project management tool. Compare and contrast the features. Which would you prefer to use? Why?

As per my experience with JIRA software, at first it was hard to navigate through the application, and to understand and use its features. I searched for online tutorials and the documentation provided by Atlassian to choose a predefined template or how to customize based on the needs of the project. I also found that the predefined templates are mainly categorized to Scrum, Kanban, or Bug tracking. As I extensively used the software and played around with the features to create issues, customize the boards, create new columns and workflows, it made more sense to me and found it comfortable. The User Interface that lets users drag issues from one column to another to imitate a visual representation of a physical board with sticky notes from backlog to in progress to done state which made me feel more familiarized and enhanced my experience. I could also introduce new fields for issues, customizing it to my own needs was the feature I found to be most helpful. With time and practice, I think it is a powerful tool to manage projects with different teams, structures, project requirements as well as small to large-scale projects.  

Unlike Jira, I used an agile project management tool known as “Shortcut” for mid sized organization when I worked in a project as a frontend developer. I used this software for more than a year to complete assigned tasks, workflow management and communicate with the team members. Throughout the time, I got familiar with most of the features of Shortcut like creating and assigning task to the team members. As I have not used JIRA as much as I have used shortcut, I researched on the internet using Capterra, Ceforge and GetApp about the differences based on its features and user reviews. At first hand I found that JIRA has much more customization features than Shortcut as it specially focuses on Kanban style agile management teams. JIRA is extensively used by large scale to small scale organizations or project teams and has a larger knowledge base for support than Shortcut. Competing with a popular tool like JIRA, shortcut does not still have features like Project Planning, Calendar Management and Wider Integration options to other applications that is useful for software development. 

After knowing about the features of JIRA, I think I would prefer to use JIRA due to its flexibility of features, up to date documentation, proper online video tutorials, integration options of 1471 other applications compared to only 52 integrations of Shortcut (Acc. to Ceforge) (https://sourceforge.net/software/compare/JIRA-vs-Shortcut/) and customization options of boards, workflows that would equip me to adapt in any type of agile project and teams. I find that JIRA makes it easier to customize its workflows, issue tracking, managing, and reporting for the project progress according to the type of team and needs of the project. As a software developer, it makes life easier for switching between different tasks or projects to keep track of progress as well as communication with the team and reporting to the managers. 

Student Name: Kristina Shrestha
Student ID: 500223379
